In time series analysis,
a trend is a gradual shift or
movement to relatively higher or
lower values over a long period of time.
When our trend pattern exhibits
a general direction that is upward,
where there are higher highs and
higher lows, we call this an uptrend.
When our trend pattern exhibits
a general direction that is down,
where there are lower highs and
lower lows, we call this a downtrend.
A time series can experience changing
direction where it can go from
an Uptrend to a Downtrend.
If there were no trend, we call it
a Horizontal or stationary trend.
Each trend we see in a time
series is call the trend cycle.
When looking at the plot of
the Bookings data from Bates Hotel,
we see that Bates Hotel continues to
increase their bookings year over year,
creating an uptrend in the time series.
If Bates Hotel reaches capacity,
then bookings will trend sideways.
And should a competing hotel
open up down the street and
steal their bookings,
Bates would experience a downtrend.